- [Instructor] Now, back to our lifecycle.
Once all of the beans are initialized,
configured, and instantiated
we enter the use phase of the lifecycle.
Now, the use phase is the most boring
of all of the phases of the lifecycle,
but it's the one that actually pays the bills,
'cause this is where the real work
of the application gets done.
Most of our time is spent in this phase.
Assuming an application stays up
for any amount of time anyway.
The ApplicationContext serves proxies
to the original classes.
So again, everything goes through proxies.
The ApplicationContext also maintains a handle to each bean,
assuming it's of type singleton.
And I keep mentioning that
because it's so important to remember.
These beans don't get garbage collected.
The ApplicationContext maintains that handle
throughout the entire lifecycle of the application.
Now, there is a special type of bean that you can create
called a context-aware bean.
And Spring provides this interface ApplicationContextAware.
And what that does is it gives your class a handle
to the ApplicationContext.
For the most part, a Spring bean doesn't know
that it's in Spring, and it also doesn't know its parent.
The ContextAware interface, this ApplicationContextAware,
gives your bean special insight
into the ApplicationContext so it can callback into it.
Now, it's not very common to use this interface,
but it is available during the use phase if you need it
for some reason, but use it with caution.
You can accidentally call close without meaning to
because you think you're doing something,
but we're going to talk about the dangers of close here
in the next phase.